adding blog for vercel ai sdk monitoring (#1765)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/blog/opentelemetry-vercel-ai-sdk.mdx

---
title: Observing Vercel AI SDK with OpenTelemetry + SigNoz
slug: opentelemetry-vercel-ai-sdk
date: 2025-07-28
tags: [OpenTelemetry, Vercel AI SDK, SigNoz]
authors: [goutham_karthi]

> description: With the Vercel AI SDK, SigNoz simplifies the process of capturing telemetry data, enabling seamless visualization and analysis of application performance metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Monitor Vercel AI SDK apps with SigNoz and OpenTelemetry. This blog takes takes you through a practical implementation of OTel in an app built using Vercel AI SDK.
```

```jsx
const tracerProvider = new NodeTracerProvider();
const result = await generateText({
  model: openai('gpt-4-turbo'),
  prompt: 'Write a short story about a cat.',
  experimental_telemetry: {
    isEnabled: true,
    tracer: tracerProvider.getTracer('ai'),
  },
});
```

Your Vercel AI SDK commands should now automatically emit traces, spans, and events. You can find more details on the types of spans and events generated [here](https://ai-sdk.dev/docs/ai-sdk-core/telemetry#collected-data).

Finally, you should be able to view this data in Signoz Cloud under the traces tab:

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
    <img src="/img/blog/2025/08/vercel-traces-view.webp" alt="Vercel Traces View"/>
    <figcaption><i>Traces of your Vercel AI Application</i></figcaption>
</figure>

If you click on any span, you can see the detailed trace of which it is a part of.

<figure data-zoomable align='center'>
    <img src="/img/blog/2025/08/vercel-traces-detailed-view.webp" alt="Vercel Detailed Traces View"/>
    <figcaption><i>Detailed Trace view of your Vercel AI Application</i></figcaption>
</figure>

> ## **Adding Logging to Your App**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding Logging to Your App
```
